add glossary (#57)
FuelLabs/fuel-docs: src/glossary.md

# Fuel Glossary

## Address

> An address is a cryptographic hash representing an identity of either a wallet, contract address, or a predicate root.

Reviewer: I worry about including `contract address` here. Unlike Ethereum, addresses and contract IDs are separate things in Fuel. I suggest removing `contract address` here and creating a separate glossary item for "Contract ID".

## AssetId

> An AssetId is a unique address for an on-chain asset. It is defined as the root of the bytecode of the contract minting the asset.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An AssetId is a unique identifier for an on-chain asset. It is defined as the root of the bytecode of the contract minting the asset.
```
Generally, we try to maintain the distinction between `ContractId`s and `Address`es  : they both wrap a `b256` but this abstraction (implemented in the std-lib) makes interactions with the two type-safe.

> An AssetId is a unique identifier for an on-chain asset. It is defined as the root of the bytecode of the contract minting the asset.

Reviewer: So the asset ID is basically the contract ID and the contract ID is a _function_ of the root. The actual formula is here: https://fuellabs.github.io/fuel-specs/master/protocol/id/contract.html

Reviewer 2: Oh that's my bad. This sentence was my suggestion.

I guess "It is derived from the root.... " works.

## Base Asset

The base asset is the underlying asset needed to perform any transactions on a blockchain. It is used to pay gas for transactions. On Ethereum, the base asset is ETH.

## Block

A block is a record of many transactions, that are grouped together and cryptographically hashed. The linked blocks form a chain, also called a blockchain.

## Block Explorer

A block explorer is an interface for block and transaction data produced by a blockchain. You can use a block explorer to explore and verify addresses, contracts, and transaction histories.

## Block Height

> The block height refers to the total number of blocks produced in a blockchain.

Reviewer: I like the definition from [here](https://academy.binance.com/en/glossary/block-height):
"Block height represents the number of blocks that were confirmed in the entire history of a particular blockchain network - from the [genesis block](https://academy.binance.com/en/glossary/genesis-block) (or block zero) until the most recent one."

So maybe something similar? Specifically, I like that it includes a "time" aspect ("until the most recent one")

> ## Block Id

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Block ID
```

> A block id is a unique identifier for a particular block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A block ID is a unique identifier for a particular block.
```

## Bridge

A bridge is a mechanism that allows the transfer of data or assets from one blockchain to another.

## Bytecode

Bytecode is machine-readable code, usually generated from a compiler.

## Chain

Another name for a blockchain.

## ChainId

> A unique id for a blockchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A unique ID for a blockchain.
```

## Client

The Fuel client refers to the software that runs the Fuel Virtual Machine. It can be used to validate and produce blocks, and send transactions.

## Coinbase

Coinbase refers to the validators paying themselves for processing a block from the transaction fees. Having a coinbase transaction on each block makes this process transparent to all users.

## Consensus

The consensus layer defines the state and validates that all nodes on the blockchain have the same state.

## Consensus Parameters

> Consensus parameters are the rules used by clients to determine and validity of and finalize a block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consensus parameters are the rules used by clients to determine the validity of and finalize a block.
```

## Forc

Forc is short for Fuel Orchestrator. Similar to Cargo for Rust, Forc is the build system and package manager for Sway. It is used to build, test, and deploy Sway contracts.

## Fraud Proof

Fraud proofs are a blockchain verification mechanism whereby a claim on a new block is accepted unless a proof the claim is invalid is provided within some configurable time window. Both the Fuel protocol and the FuelVM are designed to be fraud-provable in restrictive environments such as the Ethereum Virtual Machine.

## Fuel

The Fuel blockchain.

## Fuels

Fuels is the name of the Fuel Rust and Typescript SDKs used to interact with a contract, similar to ethers.js or web3.js

## Fuelup

Fuelup is the official toolchain and package manager for the Fuel toolchain.

## FuelVM

The FuelVM is the virtual machine powering the Fuel blockchain.

## Fuel Core

`fuel-core` is the name of the Fuel client implementation.

## Gas

Gas is a variable fee charged by a node to process a transaction that is executed on-chain.

## Indexer

An indexer is a program that watches and organizes blockchain data so it can be easily queried.

## Input

> An input refers to a transaction input, or which state elements (usually: UTXOs) are consumed by a transaction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An input refers to a transaction input, which is a UTXO consumed by a transaction.
```
Fuel has Contract UTXOs, rather than state-element UTXOs. When contract state is read or written, the whole Contract UTXO is consumed.

Mainnet refers to the main network of a blockchain, as opposed to a testnet.

## Message

A type of input that only includes specific metadata, and is often used for bridging.

## Mint

Minting refers to the creation of new coins.

## Modular

Referring to a blockchain architecture that allows for execution, settlement, consensus, and data availability to run on separate layers.

## Monolithic

Referring to a blockchain architecture that handles execution, settlement, consensus, and data availability all at the same time on a single layer.

## Native Asset

With Fuel any contract can make its own native asset. On Ethereum, the only native asset is ETH. This allows for much cheaper token transactions because it doesn't require any contract state changes. It also allows you to directly forward any asset in a transaction call, avoiding the need for the `approve` and `transferFrom` mechanisms.

## Network

Another name for a blockchain.

## Node

A client that validates and produces blocks for the network.

## Optimistic Rollup

An optimistic rollup is a sidechain that uses fraud proofs to verify transactions instead of relying on a majority of validators to be honest.

## Output

> An output refers to a transaction output, or which state elements are output by a transaction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An output refers to a transaction output, or which UTXOs are output by a transaction.
```

## Parallel Transactions

Parallel transactions refers to the ability of the FuelVM to process multiple transactions in parallel.

## Predicate

> A predicate is a pure function that can return true or false, and is sent inside a transaction as bytecode and checked at transaction validity time. If it evaluates to `false` the transaction will not be processed, and no gas will be used. If it evaluates to `true`, any coins belonging to the address equal to the root of the predicate bytecode may be spent by the transaction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A predicate is a pure function that can return true or false, and is sent inside a transaction as bytecode and checked at transaction validity time. If it evaluates to `false` the transaction will not be processed, and no gas will be used. If it evaluates to `true`, any coins belonging to the address equal to the Merkle root of the predicate bytecode may be spent by the transaction.
```

Perhaps add "Merkle tree" to the glossary? :

"A Merkle tree is a data structure which uses a cryptographic hash function recursively to condense a set of data into a single value, called the root. It allows efficient proofs that a given element is part of the set"

Reviewer 2: @sarahschwartz  Did you see above comment about adding a Merkle tree entry to the glossary? I guess if we're going to introduce the term in explaining another, we should also explain the term itself, just in case.

Author: I missed this, thank you!

## Private Key

A cryptographic key that is used to prove ownership by producing a digital signature. It should be kept private (or secret) as it can grant access to a wallet.

## Public Key

> A cryptographic key that is generated from its associated private key and can be shared publicly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A cryptographic key that is generated from its associated private key and can be shared publicly. Addresses are derived from public keys.
```
